There are several reasons Stance Detection makes for a good first task for the Fake News Challenge:

1. Our extensive discussions with journalists and fact checkers made it clear both how difficult “truth labeling” of claims really is, 
and how they’d rather have reliable semi-automated tool to help them in do their job better rather than fully-automated 
system whose performance will inevitably fall far short of 100% accuracy.

2. Truth labeling also poses several large technical / logistical challenge for a contest like the FNC:

    * There exists very little labeled training data of fake vs. real news stories. 
    * The data that does exist (e.g. fact checker website archives) is almost all copyright protected.
    * The data that does exist is extremely diverse and unstructured, making hard to train on.
    * Any dataset containing claims with associated “truth” labels is going to be contested as biased. <br/>
    {: .list-on}
    
    Together these make the truth labeling task virtually impossible with existing AI / NLP. In fact, [even people](http://www.journalism.org/2016/12/15/many-americans-believe-fake-news-is-sowing-confusion/)  have trouble distinguishing fake news from real news.

3. The dataset we are using to support the Stance Detection task for FNC-1 was created by accredited journalists, making it both high quality and credible. It is also in the public domain.
4. Variants of the FNC-1 Stance Detection task have already been explored and proven feasible but far from trivial by Andreas Vlachos & his students from U. of Sheffield. Cite: Ferreira & Vlachos (2016) & Augenstein et al. (2016). 
5. We considered targeting the truth labeling task for the FNC-1, but without giving teams any labeled training data. We decided against it both because we thought a competition with a more traditionally structured Machine learning tasks would appeal to more teams, and because such an open-ended truth labeling competition was recently completed, called the Fast & Furious Fact Check Challenge.
6. Our discussions with human fact checkers lead us to believe that a solution to the stance detection problem could form the basis of a useful tool for real-life human fact checkers. Also see, next question/answer.
